Creative Force is a very differently run group of forgers than has ever existed in the past. In addition it is run by myself, GodlyPerfection, which comes with its own baggage. I've been around the beginning of H3 as AZN FTW and I've had a bad history with many communities due to my idealist goals and how I approach them. Consider part of any community backlash as a combination of many things which include feelings towards my, commonly viewed as egotistical, choices/behaviors.

That stated I also have a history of learning to manage this. First off, people like SecretSchnitzel will always exist. They constantly critique, antagonize, and just genuinely stir up feelings. REGARDLESS of their actions, they are still people. They also have their feelings and their goals, but perhaps the way they go about it is just not very tactful. In that view, EVERY SINGLE PERSON deserves respect, a helping hand, a second/third/fourth chance, etc. The best way that you can fight forces like that is to ignore it and work with them as a new person in the community who doesn't see the whole picture. "Hey man, I don't feel like that's really how things are going from what I see". Express your feelings about the situations, without invalidating their feelings about the situation. Not to say we see the whole picture, but we do see something they don't which is Creative Force behind the scenes. And they also see something we don't which is the way the community talks when we are not around.

As I've heard Nitro(Matt) and Sniper(Connor) have mentioned, "Praise in Public, Criticize in Private". Personally punishing isn't really helpful. Extend friendships DESPITE what they say. Blaze thank you for taking the post with SecretSchnitzel (Tyler) to PMs. It not only helps diffuse negativity, it gives Tyler the chance to grow in the privacy of one-on-one interaction. I've seen Tyler grow, and I believe he is trying to change. Keep working with him as you have Blaze, it is worth it I promise. And everyone if you have nothing nice to say... then please follow the cliche and don't say it. Keep your cool, step out. Consider yourself saving energy. I know Black (Cliff) that he has been particular antagonizing you and it's rough. I appreciate how you've handled the situation, but let's take it a step further and extend a helping hand (I mention this in public because we can all learn from it and Cliff's isn't the only scenario).

We are going to face negativity as a team regularly. We are looking to change the ebb and flow of how this community conducts itself. We are pushing for change and change is hard for people. Take a deep breath, smile and realize that you are part of something YOU believe in and trust. Nobody can take that away from any of us. Keep doing what you are doing and we'll get through and change people's minds with actions, cuz actions do speak louder than words. Despite the negativity of the community towards me, I still run the Sweaty Hour lobby. People will look at that and appreciate the strength in trying to invest time to help and organize. DO THAT. Not just for the team, but for yourself.

Matt asked me to be sure that we didn't let negativity of anybody stop us. That includes people external to the team that cause us strife. I've been combating those personality types for 8 years and I'm still flourishing, you guys can do it too. Trust me. We will go far folks, just keep being awesome and move together as a positive force even to those who you may feel don't deserve it.
