It's been a while since I've written to the community about Creative Force [CF], so if you don't know what CF is, there is a brief overview below. We are hitting a point where we are ready to grow yet again and take on a few more team members. We've had amazing success behind the scenes over the past year, and our next goal is to focus on branding. We want to ensure that everyone on the team is having their work publicized for everyone to see in a more efficient manner. Our publishing and marketing portion is lacking, but it won't be for long. And soon after that our potential for output will increase so we'll need more designers and artists too. Read on for the whole scoop...


## Who we are

Creative Force is a content creation team focused on collaborating to put out a steady stream of content. We all started as Halo Forge community members looking to find like minded individuals to create content along side of. But we do things differently than your typical Forger... like a game development team we take pick of a set of responsibilities for each part of content creation, but we never work on a project alone or on every part of a single creation. We work together to bring value to the team name (not individuals). Our ultimate goal is to not only define this process of collaboration and gain experience, but also to extend this into other venues outside of Halo Forge.

Our team has recognized that we love creating content and it matters to us what we do. Not only that we pride ourselves in the amount of effort and passion that we put into it. For all involved, this is a learning experience and a way to build ourselves up. Together we learn teamwork, collaboration, critiquing, deadlines, communication, managing conflict, project management, working for others, stepping down from spotlight, public relations, and various other skills. We have become a family that supports each other in professional growth with many of us using what we have done and our skills on our resumes, in interviews, and using teammates as references. In my recent interviews, my potential future employers were always happy to hear about the growth of our team.

For more on who we are, check out our **public documentation**.


## What we were doing

Initially we created a system of shared investment where you weren't the only person who wanted the project to be complete. We did this by sharing responsibilities on a project and enforcing a minimum of two people to work on a piece of content (at least one designer and one developer). In addition, those involved with publishing or management are just as invested to see the project through as the rest of the team.

Our typical process looked like this: several designers will work on blockouts (a sloppy layout of essentially primitives, quickly made to test with no concern for art, bugs, or polish) and test them with as many people as possible. When a blockout is addictive to play without any art then we put it as "ready for art". We worked as a team to decide an art direction for the blockout. Eventually an artist picked up the blockout and worked hand-in-hand with the designer to ensure key gameplay elements stay in-tact while realizing the art direction and bringing it to life. When art was done and testing ensured gameplay remained true, it was ready for publishing. Those in charge of publishing assisted with screenshots, write ups, and post formatting. Then it was posted to the appropriate outlets as a WIP Beta to get community feedback (Waypoint, Forgehub, Reddit, etc.). Our goal was to rinse and repeat this process doing a second art pass, adjusting for feedback, testing, and publishing until we finally fully released the piece of content.


## How we've changed

Since a couple months ago we've changed up our process. We learned that the most enjoyable projects that we worked on and that were the most successful were projects in which the entire team was involved. Sessions where we had 3-8 members in one session every few nights working together to build something up or achieve a particular goal. We learned this from our initial Breakout Initiative, our Grifball Initiative, the Decal Trick, finishing up projects for deadlines when the designer/developer needed help, etc. We also noticed some issues in the pipeline where projects would get stuck and too much work was being put on single individuals. So we made a change.

How it works today is that the early stages of projects are about "leads" laying the groundwork and then the entire team working to build up single projects at a time. The designer lays out the vision for the gameplay. Then the artist lays down the vision for the art. These visions are descriptions, references, and proof of concepts that communicate the goals clearly to create a unified understanding. With these visions in place, the team works together to realize the vision and work from a roadmap whenever they have time. Nobody needs to be on at the same time as that isn't a requirement, but often there are several working together in a lobby. Our entire process focuses on enabling communication between team members to ensure that we always remain in-sync... both in understanding the visions and in keeping up to date on the progress of a project.


## Where we are now

We have been doing this since I put out that initial idea of building a production team back on October 15, 2015. We are heading towards only a year later and we currently have 18 active members (I just trimmed our roster of inactives). We currently have 49 projects between "ready for art" and "fully published" with dozens and dozens more being tested, designed, and brainstormed into existence. We've nailed down what's required for our ideation and development segments of our content pipeline. Our next focus is to build up our publishing segment. Right now we have a couple writers, our managers, and various team members helping with publishing, but only those couple of writers are truly dedicated to actual publishing tasks. So we are looking to take on people to help focus on that portion of the pipeline (things like screenshots, writing, posting, social networking, etc). In the second post you'll find several roles we are looking to fill, mostly for publishing but we are always looking for more designers, developers, and QA managers so you'll find those roles as well.

Another part of the pipeline we are exploring is our innovation segment. This involves new mini-game ideas, mechanic discovery, and full blown new game modes like Grifball, Conquest, and Ricochet. We have a very specific section that has dozens of new ideas, but requires know how, time, and testing. This segment requires focused and logical minds that are very familiar with the Halo scripting engine and its possibilities. We have extremely clever and innovative members busy with other responsibilities, and having several people focused specifically on designing mechanisms to make these crazy ideas work would be extremely valuable. This segment also includes taking these mechanisms and making them easy to use for regular forgers in the form of prefabs, assistance, and tutorials. The best part of being located in Creative Force, is that when an idea pans out and is a blast to play, we have an entire team able to push out a variety of content for the new idea (new maps and variants). Many have witnessed our ability to put out tons of Breakout and Grifball maps and this ability can be utilized for new game modes.

A note about being a part of the team. While each person holds different sets of responsibilities, no single person is kept from doing what they want. If you are a writer and have an idea for a layout, you are free to build that layout and work with our designers to get more eyes on it. Or if you are sick of designing blockouts you are free to act as the artist on another project. Every team member has specialties, but we don't hold back the solo forger in you. We do want to help you channel particular skills and make your ideas the best that they can possibly be. And there is no major time commitment, this is a fully volunteer based team. The goal of the team is that if someone can't finish it someone else will pick it up.


## What you get

What we provide is enablement for each other. Creating content is hard. It isn't easy to design a layout, build a blockout, test, do art, ensure quality, do a write up, take screenshots, publish to websites, market your content, and maintain it all at once. That's why I created this team, so we don't have to do it all and we aren't the only ones who care. A single person can get burned out at a particular part of the process and stuck and never release content. We get that and the shared investment of a project means that we will eventually see it through to the end and assist each other when we get in a rut. With this support system our team has developed into sort of a family that we can rely on.

In addition to the support of a team, we provide an organized process that we've refined over the past year. We track all of our projects on Trello, communicate with Slack, and regularly refine our process when we notice a bottleneck. This organization allows us to enable multiple people to work on a single project which has benefits that come back tenfold. Because of this we can also automate multiple parts of the process. We have talented software engineers on the team that are already working on automation to make everyone's job easier. In the future this will truly speed up and improve our ability to build content.

And finally you get a brand and a home. We've been around for a year, we have our hand in various pots, and we do our best to add value to the community at large. From the Decal Trick to Attack/Defend Breakout to working closely with ATN to several of our members being staff at Forgehub. We went from a fairly negative reputation to a very positive one. We love being part of the community and building it up rather than segmenting it so we make sure to stay a part of Forgehub.

I hope you'll take some time to consider jumping on board as we enter another growth phase. The success the team has had together has been amazing and I've never been a part of a more positive and supportive team. I'm proud of our current accomplishments and I hope we can share this with even more people.
